+++
title = "Development of a Line-Follower Robot for Robotic Competition Purposes"
date = "2018-09-13"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Murcia Harold, Valenciano Juan David and Tapiero Yeison"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Communications in Computer and Information Science"
publication_short = " *CCIS2018*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "A fast line follower is an intelligent robot that must detect and follow a line drawn on a surface with possible changes of inclination. The robotics competitions demand that the robot go over a racetrack in the shortest possible time. The purpose of this paper is to study the line follower robot from the Control Engineering point of view to opti- mize its performance in standard races. In this paper we propose a SISO angle control scheme based on the relation between estimated line posi- tion and yaw robot angle. A sensitive position estimation respect to the line was implemented to improve the provided information interpretation from infrared array sensors respect to the conventional robots. Finally a suction turbine engine and a guarantee action algorithm were added to improve the angle controller response at high speeds and loss of grip on the wheels."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["RoboticsAndControl"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-00353-1_41"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = "https://github.com/HaroldMurcia/LineFollower.git"
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#url_custom = [{name = "", url = ""}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
